---
id: 43
title: 'JunOS ISSU'
date: '2010-12-29T18:26:00-06:00'
author: buraglio
layout: post
guid: 'http://new.forwardingplane.net/2010/12/junos-issu/'
permalink: /2010/12/29/junos-issu/
blogger_blog:
    - www.forwardingplane.net
blogger_author:
    - 'Nick Buraglio'
blogger_permalink:
    - /2010/12/junos-issu.html
Views:
    - '265'
categories:
    - How-To
    - Routing
---

I recently needed to upgrade a few MX480 routers and decided that it would be a good opportunity to get some experience with Juniper's in service software upgrade.<br />I'd read a bit about it but I'd not had the chance to really use it. It's pretty straightforward and it does what it claims. The following are my notes from rolling through this on my test lab MX480.<br /><br />A few things are necessary to get going with ISSU, first and foremost, you need to have a box with two routing engines. Check.<br />Second, some configuration is necessary to make this all work.<br />The boxes need to be running nonstop-routing, they need to be syncronizing the configs, and they need to have graceful-switchover enabled.<br /><br />Here are the steps I went through on my vanilla test box to make this work:<br /><br />root# set chassis redundancy graceful-switchover<br />root# set routing-options nonstop-routing <br />root# set system commit synchronize<br /><br />If you already have those options set then you don't need to enter those commands.<br /><br />With those options set, you're ready to do the ISSU. <br /><br />root> request system software in-service-upgrade /var/tmp/jinstall-10.3R2.11-domestic-signed.tgz<br />Chassis ISSU Check Done<br />ISSU: Validating Image<br />Checking compatibility with configuration<br />Initializing...<br />Using jbase-10.1R1.8<br />vn_read_compressed_block: invalid block index 550<br />Verified manifest signed by PackageProduction_10_1_0<br />Verified jbase-10.1R1.8 signed by PackageProduction_10_1_0<br />Using /var/tmp/jinstall-10.3R2.11-domestic-signed.tgz<br />....<br /><br /><br />This takes a LONG time and generates a lot of scroll.<br /><br /><br />You'll see long pauses and more text like<br /><br /><br />Saving package file in /var/sw/pkg/jinstall-10.3R2.11-domestic-signed.tgz ...<br />Saving state for rollback ...<br />Backup upgrade done<br />Rebooting Backup RE<br /><br />Rebooting re1<br />ISSU: Backup RE Prepare Done<br />Waiting for Backup RE reboot<br /><br /><br />Then interesting thing start to show up:<br /><br /><br />GRES operational<br />Initiating Chassis In-Service-Upgrade<br />Chassis ISSU Started<br />ISSU: Preparing Daemons<br />ISSU: Daemons Ready for ISSU<br />ISSU: Starting Upgrade for FRUs<br />ISSU: Preparing for Switchover<br /><br /><br />This is where the magic starts.  The nonstop-routing and hitless failover come into play as the route engines switch over.  Very cool. <br /><br />On the console of the backup RE (now the master) you'll see messages like<br /><br /><br />Message from syslogd@ at Dec 29 19:11:57  ...<br /> fpc0 RDP: Remote side reset connection: rdp.(fpc0:22528).(serverRouter:ppm) <br /><br />Message from syslogd@ at Dec 29 19:11:57  ...<br /> fpc1 RDP: Remote side reset connection: rdp.(fpc1:4096).(serverRouter:ppm) <br /><br /><br />these are normal.  <br /><br />Some things that I didn't expect, but probably should have:<br /><br />The old master stays the backup route engine after the ISSU<br />The old master does NOT reboot into the new code, instead it stays on the original code requiring a manual reboot (unless, I asume, you add the "reboot" command on to the original upgrade command).<br />On routers that have logical systems configured on them, only the master logical system supports nonstop active routing.<br /><br />I did the reboot manually<br /><br /><br />root> request system reboot <br />Reboot the system ? [yes,no] (no) yes <br /><br />                                                                               <br />*** FINAL System shutdown message from root@ ***                             <br />System going down IMMEDIATELY                                                  <br />                                                                               <br />                                                                               <br />Shutdown NOW!<br />Reboot consistency check bypassed - jinstall 10.3R2.11 will complete installation upon reboot<br />[pid 65006]<br /><br /><br />and then did a failover to the old master.  <br /><br /><br />root> request chassis routing-engine master switch<br /><br /><br />....and thats pretty much it.  Upgrade complete. <br /><br />This is a really useful tool that allows for very minimal interruption during software upgrades.  I'd recommend reading <a href="http://www.juniper.net/us/en/local/pdf/whitepapers/2000280-en.pdf">this</a> white paper on ISSU if you're interested into diving into deeper details.  <br /><br />Basically what ISSU does is to install junos on the backup route engine (re1) as normal, reboot it, validate and switch over to re1 and do the upgrade on the primary (now backup) route engine.   The entire process took about 40 minutes on my mx480.<div>[[ This is a content summary only. Visit my website for full links, other content, and more! ]]</div>