---
id: 37
title: 'Juniper interface type naming convention'
date: '2011-04-12T19:04:00-05:00'
author: buraglio
layout: post
guid: 'http://new.forwardingplane.net/2011/04/juniper-interface-type-naming-convention/'
permalink: /2011/04/12/juniper-interface-type-naming-convention/
Views:
    - '1478'
categories:
    - Routing
---

I found most of this on a web page somewhere tha tI can't seem to find again. Below are some common useful junos tidbits regarding routing tables and interface types/names:<br /><br />JunOS CLI supports the basic grep command (like | include) so any show commands can be grepped. I believe the grep command implies the -i flag for case insensitivity.<br /><br />The routing table is presented in such a way to group types of routes.<br /><br /><b><span>inet.0 is the ipv4 unicast routing table<br /><br /></span></b><div><b><span>inet.1 is the ipv4 multicast routing table<br /><br /></span></b></div><div><b><span>inet.3 is the MPLS routing table<br /><br /></span></b></div><div><b><span>inet6.0 is the ipv6 routing table</span></b><br /><br /><br />Juniper interface types<br /><br /><br />Most common ones you'll probably see:<br /><br /><b>fe: Fast Ethernet 100Base-TX (Fast Ethernet, 100 Mbps).<br /><br />fxp0: Management and internal Ethernet The management Ethernet interface is an out-of-band management interface within the routing platform.<br /><br />fxp1: Interface that connects the routing engine and packet forwarding engine.<br /><br />xe: 1GE optical interface on ex switches<br /><br />ge: Gigabit and 10gigabit Ethernet. Includes Gigabit Ethernet IQ interfaces.<br /><br />me0: - out of band management interface on ex switches<br /><br />lo: Loopback This interface is internally generated. The logical interface lo0.16383 is a non-configurable interface for routing platform control traffic.<br /><br />vcp: - virtual chassis interface (EX4200 only)<br /><br />Other ones you may run into:<br /><br />ae: Aggregated Ethernet A virtual aggregated link.<br /><br /></b><div><b>as: Aggregated SONET/SDH A virtual aggregated link.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>at: ATM1 or ATM2 IQ Asynchronous Transfer Mode<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>cau4: Channelized AU-4 IQ Configured on the Channelized STM-1 IQ PIC.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>coc1: Channelized OC-1 IQ Configured on the Channelized OC-12 IQ PIC.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>coc12: Channelized OC-12 IQ Configured on the Channelized OC-12 IQ PIC.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>cstm1: Channelized STM-1 IQ Configured on the Channelized STM-1 IQ PIC.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>ce1: Channelized E1 IQ Configured on the Channelized E1 IQ PIC or Channelized STM-1 IQ PIC.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>ct1: Channelized T1 IQ Configured on the Channelized DS-3 IQ PIC or Channelized OC-12 IQ PIC.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>ct3: Channelized T3 IQ Configured on the Channelized DS-3 IQ PIC or Channelized OC-12 IQ PIC.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>cp: Collector Configured on the Monitoring Services II PIC.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>ds: DS-0 Configured on the Channelized DS-3 to DS-0 PIC, Channelized E1 PIC, Channelized OC-12 IQ PIC,<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>dsc: Discard Allows you to identify the ingress point of a denial-of-service (DoS) attack.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>e1: E1 Includes the channelized STM-1 to E1 interfaces.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>e3: E3 Includes the E3 IQ interfaces.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>es: Encryption, Allows you to configure a security association (SA) name with a logical interface.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>gr: Generic Route Encapsulation tunnel Allows you to configure a unicast tunnel using GRE encapsulation.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>gre: Internally generated This interface is internally generated and is not configurable.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>ip: IP-over-IP encapsulation tunnel Allows you to configure a unicast tunnel using IP-IP encapsulation.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>ipip: Internally generated This interface is internally generated and is not configurable.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>ls: Link services Supports bundles that contain links.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>lsi: Internally generated This interface is internally generated and is not configurable.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>ml: Multilink Includes Multilink Frame Relay and Multilink PPP.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>mo: Monitoring services Includes the monitoring services and monitoring services<br />II interfaces: The logical interface mo-fpc/pic/port.16383 is an internally generated, non-configurable interface for routing platform control traffic.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>mt: Multicast tunnel Internal routing platform interface for VPNs.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>mtun: Internally generated This interface is internally generated and is not configurable.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>oc3: OC-3 IQ Configured on the Channelized OC-12 IQ PIC.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>pe: This interface is present on the first-hop routing platform. Encapsulates packets destined for the rendezvous point (RP) routing platform.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>pd: This interface is present on the RP De-encapsulates packets at the RP.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>pimd: Internally generated This interface is internally generated and is not configurable.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>pime: Internally generated This interface is internally generated and is not configurable.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>rlsq: - a redundant bundle interface, made of two or more lsq interface. If you have redundant AS Pics.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>se: Serial Includes the EIA-530, V.35, and X.21 interfaces.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>so: SONET/SDH Both are widely used methods for very high speed transmission of voice and data signals across the numerous world-wide fiber-optic networks.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>sp: Adaptive services The logical interface sp-fpc/pic/port.16383 is an internally generated, non-configurable interface for routing platform control traffic.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>t1: T1 Includes the channelized DS-3 to DS-1 interfaces.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>t3: T3 Includes the channelized OC-12 to DS-3 interfaces.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>tap: Internally generated This interface is internally generated and is not configurable.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>vsp: Voice services, The Adaptive Services (AS) Physical Interface Card (PIC) supports the compressed real-time transport protocol (RTP) on this interface.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>vt: Virtual loopback tunnel On routing platforms equipped with a Tunnel PIC, enables egress filtering.<br /></b><br />Other interesting terminology regarding the juniper architecture is the module layout:<br /><br /><b>RE: Routing Engine, Like a cisco supervisor module. Central brains of the system<br /><br /></b><div><b>PFE: Packet forwarding Engine. Controls the data packet forwarding of the system.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>SCB: Switch control board. Contains ASICs that handle route lookups and memory management.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>PIC: Physical interface card. Sort of like a port, but can contain multiple interfaces.<br /><br /></b></div><div><b>FPC: Flexible PIC concentrator. Like a linecard that has module slots. Can handle different types of PICs</b></div></div></div><div>[[ This is a content summary only. Visit my website for full links, other content, and more! ]]</div>