---
title: 'Workflow and my mobile device setups.'
date: Tue, 04 Dec 2012 21:28:53 +0000
draft: false
tags: [How-To, Musings]
---

Like many others, I rely heavily on my mobile devices to get my work done.  I've been a user of the iPhone since the original, with a year on a Nexus one android device.  I don't have a strong preference and there are no "religious arguments" to be had with me on platform.  In fact, I'd probably choose PamlOS if I had a choice, it's simple elegance and stability were a comfort to me...it just didn't make it to modernization. ..but I digress. I've chosen to go the Apple route, my machines are all Apple and so the integration makes sense.  That being said, there are a **huge** amount of apps to choose from on all of the major platforms.  Here are the ones that I find myself using, either for work or pleasure, on a weekly basis.  All of these apps are free and work across iPad and iPhone unless otherwise noted.   iSSH - SSH, VNC and RDC client.  Excellent.  $9.99 Works on iPad and iPhone Mail -Stock Twitter - Standard Twitter Client. Tapatalk -forum app $? Untappd - Socialize your drinking, I use it to take tasting notes (pinky up).  IPhone only PixelPipe - Send images to multiple destinations at once, good for backing up to flickr and picasa, etc.  iPhone only. Public Radio - Stream NPR. iPhone only Wootie - I gotta have my woot fix for the day. eBay - I also love me some eBay. Amazon - " " Grocery G. - Share a grocery list with the wife.  Very handy and does push notifications.  $2.99? Shop Savvy - A barcode scanner, saves to dropbox, compares prices.  Very handy. iPhone only Nixie Clock - Nixie tube-like alarm clock.  Can stream radio as an alarm.  iPhone only $.99 SpiderOak - Browse my SpiderOak backup.  iPhone only Box - I don't use box as much personally, but my job has a deal with them. Dropbox - A **must** have.  you all know what dropbox is. WebEx - iPhone WebeX client.  Works well. iPhone only(?) GoToMeeting - Same drill as WebEx Skype - for video and audo internationally and with folks that can't do FaceTime. GV Connect - Google Voice client.  Works better than the Google app, supports multiple accounts. iPhone only $99 Plex - Amazing client for Plex Media Server.  Works well over cellular data, very well supported. $? NetFLix - you know what this is FlicksMan - Netflix Queue Manager.  Very well done. Lync 2010 - Connect to my works MS Lync instance.  Works well. Reminders - Stock app.  Clopud sync reminders / todo app.  I can't live without it. BlueOn - Turn on (but not off) bluetooth in one click.  I use this a lot. DataVault - Password Store.  Encrypted Dropbox sync with deskatop app and other mobile apps. Note Taking - Notes app, Free.  I need an alternative.